DOCSP-39696 Write Update Operations (#37)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/tutorials/write-update-documents.txt

Each update method requires the following parameters:

- A query filter document, which determines which documents to update. For more
  information about using query filters, see :ref:`Filters <java-rs-update-filters>`.

- An update document, which specifies the update operator (the kind of update to
  perform) and the fields and values that should change. For more information
  about update documents, see :ref:`Update Operators <java-rs-update-operators>`.

.. _java-rs-update-filters:

Filters
~~~~~~~

Each update method requires a **query filter**, which specifies the
search criteria that determine which documents to select for updates. To facilitate the creation of filter objects, the
driver provides the ``Filters``class that provides filter condition helper
methods. 

To view a list of ``Filters`` helpers, see the `Filters
API documentation <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Filters.html>`__.
For more information about query filters, see the 
:manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
the MongoDB Server manual. 

.. _java-rs-update-operators:

Update Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To change a field in a document, MongoDB provides update operators.

Reviewer: S: not a necessary change, but a lot of the sentences start with "To ..." in this paragraph so you could reword this one
```suggestion
You can use update operators to change a document field.
```

Author: I think I'm going to keep it as is to keep parallelism within the other sections as well as other docs within the write section of this page.

To specify the modification to perform using the update operators,

> create an update document. To learn more about update operators, see

Reviewer: S: I usually like to have the "to learn more about" sentence at the end of the section. You could move this to after the `important` admonition

:manual:`Update Operators </reference/operator/update/>` in the Server manual.

To facilitate the creation of update documents, the driver
provides the ``Updates`` helper class.

.. important::

   The ``id`` field is immutable, so you cannot change the value of the
   ``id`` field in a document.

Update One Document
-------------------

To update a single document from a MongoDB collection, call the ``updateOne()``

> method and pass in your query filter as the first argument. Then, pass in your
> update operators as the second argument to the ``updateOne()`` method. After you call the
> ``updateOne()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass in a subscriber.

Reviewer: S: use "pass" instead of "pass in"
```suggestion
method and pass your query filter as the first argument. Then, pass your
update operators as the second argument to the ``updateOne()`` method. After you call the
``updateOne()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass a subscriber as an argument.
```

Reviewer: Applies to all

> The following example uses ``Updates.set()`` to update a document in the
> ``restaurants`` collection with a ``name`` value of ``Bagels N Buns`` to have
> the name ``2 Bagels 2 Buns``.

Reviewer: S: We usually try to [avoid "with"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-using) since it's a little ambiguous. Also, since you mentioned in the sample data section that you're using the restaurants collection, I don't think you need to include that here:
```suggestion
The following example uses the ``Updates.set()`` method to update the ``name`` value of a matching document from ``Bagels N Buns`` to ``2 Bagels 2 Buns``:
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber<UpdateResult> updateOneSubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.updateOne(eq("name", "Bagels N Buns"), set("name", "2
    Bagels 2 Buns")).subscribe(updateOneSubscriber);
    updateOneSubscriber.await();

Update Multiple Documents
-------------------------

To update multiple documents from a MongoDB collection, call the ``updateMany()``
method and pass in your query filter. Then, pass in your
update operators as the second argument to the ``updateMany()`` method. After you call the
``updateMany()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass in a subscriber.

The following example updates all documents in the ``restaurants`` collection

> with a ``borough`` value of ``"Brooklyn"`` to have a star value of 4:

Reviewer: I: it seems like this code example updates the `cuisine` values rather than the `borough` values. You could reword to something like "The following example updates all documents in which the cuisine value is "Pizza" to store a cuisine value of "Pasta""

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber<UpdateResult> updateManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.updateMany(eq("cuisine", "Pizza"), set("cuisine", "Pasta")).subscribe(updateManySubscriber);
    updateManySubscriber.await();

Customize the Update Operation
------------------------------

The ``UpdateOptions`` class contains methods that modify
the behavior of update methods. To use the ``UpdateOptions``
class, construct a new instance of the class, then call one or more of its methods
to modify the update operation. You can chain these method calls together.
To modify the behavior of the update operation, pass the class instance and
chained method calls as the second argument to the
``updateOne()`` or ``updateMany()`` method.

> You can use the following methods in the ``updateOptions`` class
> to modify an update method. All methods are optional.

Reviewer: S: you could combine these two sentences just to be a little more concise: 
```suggestion
You can use the following optional methods in the ``UpdateOptions`` class
to modify an update method:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

>    * - ``array_filters (List<? extends Bson> arrayFilters)``

Reviewer: S: I'd remove the space between the method name and the parentheses. Also, it seems like these methods are formatted in camel case in the API docs
```suggestion
   * - ``arrayFilters(List<? extends Bson> arrayFilters)``
```

Reviewer: Applies to all

     - | Specifies whether the update operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
         Server manual.
      
   * - ``collation (Collation collation)``
     - | Specifies the kind of language collation to use when sorting
         results. For more information, see :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#std-label-collation>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.  

   * - ``comment (Bson comment)``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
         fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
         MongoDB Server manual.  

   * - ``comment (String comment)``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
         fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
         MongoDB Server manual.  

   * - ``hint (Bson hint)``

>      - | Gets or sets the index to scan for documents. 

Reviewer: I: In the [API docs](https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/UpdateOptions.html), it looks like hint() is just the setter method and getHint() would be the getter. So I think you can remove the "Gets or" part of the sentence.

Also, I think differentiating this method from the next one in the table (hint(String hint)) would be helpful:

```suggestion
     - | Sets the index for the operation as a ``Bson`` value.
```

         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``hint (String hint)``

>      - | Gets or sets the index to scan for documents. 

Reviewer: S: similar comment as above:
```suggestion
     - | Sets the index for the operation as a ``String`` value.
```

   * - ``upsert (Boolean upsert)``
     - | Specifies whether the update operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see the :manual:`upsert
         statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-upsert>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``updateMany()`` method to find all documents where the 
``borough`` field has the value ``"Manhattan"``. It then updates the ``borough``
value in these documents to ``"Manhattan (north)"``. Because the ``upsert`` option is
set to ``True``, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 
match any existing documents.

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber <UpdateResult> updateManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.updateMany(eq("borough", "Manhattan"), set("borough", "Manhattan
    (north)"), new UpdateOptions().upsert(true)).subscribe(updateManySubscriber);
    updateManySubscriber.await();

Return Value
------------

The ``updateOne()`` and ``updateMany()`` methods each return an ``UpdateResult`` 

> object. The ``UpdateResult`` type contains the following properties:

Reviewer: S: I think "instance methods" is a better way to describe these:
```suggestion
object. The ``UpdateResult`` class contains the following instance methods:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - Property

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
   * - Method
```

     - Description

   * - ``getMatchedCount()``
     - | The number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
         how many were updated.

   * - ``getModifiedCount()``
     - | The number of documents modified by the update operation. If an updated
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.

   * - ``getUpsertedId()``
     - | The ID of the document that was upserted in the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert. Otherwise ``null``.
         
   * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
     - | Returns true if the update was acknowledged.

> .. Additional Information

Reviewer: I: since this header is commented out, the API Documentation section is rendering as a subsection of "Return Value." You could uncomment the "Additional Information" header and maybe add a sentence linking to the [update](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/update/) page in the Server docs

----------------------

.. TODO:
.. For runnable code examples of inserting documents with {+driver-short+}, see
.. :ref: ADD HERE

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this
guide, see the following API documentation:

- `updateOne() <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/MongoCollection.html#updateOne(com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.ClientSession,org.bson.conversions.Bson,java.util.List)>`__
- `updateMany()
  <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/MongoCollection.html#updateMany(com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.ClientSession,org.bson.conversions.Bson,java.util.List)>`__
- `UpdateOptions

>   <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/UpdateOptions.html>`__

Reviewer: S: you could also link to the UpdateResult API docs

documents from a MongoDB collection by performing update operations.

An update operation updates one or more documents in a MongoDB collection.
You can perform an update operation by using the ``updateOne()`` or
``updateMany()`` methods.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. 

.. TODO:
.. Once get started ticket merged in, link the get started tutorial below

.. To learn how to create a
.. free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
.. :ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>` tutorial.

.. TODO: When write insert methods merged in, add subscriber methods section includes within subscriber methods section

.. Subscriber Methods
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Update Operations
-----------------

You can perform update operations in MongoDB by using the following methods:

- ``updateOne()``, which updates *the first document* that matches the search criteria
- ``updateMany()``, which updates *all documents* that match the search criteria

Each update method requires the following parameters:

> - A query filter document, which determines which documents to update. For more

Reviewer: S: just to avoid the "which" repetition:
```suggestion
- A query filter document, which determines the documents to update. For more
```

  information about using query filters, see the :ref:`Filters
  <java-rs-update-filters>` section.

- An update document, which specifies the update operator (the kind of update to

>   perform) and the fields and values that should change. For more information

Reviewer: S: since we try to use the present tense whenever possible, I'd remove "should"
```suggestion
  perform) and the fields and values to change. For more information
```

>   about update documents, see the :ref:`Update Operators

Reviewer: S: just to match the name of the section
```suggestion
  about update operators, see the :ref:`Update Operators
```

  <java-rs-update-operators>` section.

.. _java-rs-update-filters:

Filters
~~~~~~~

Each update method requires a **query filter**, which specifies the
search criteria that determine which documents to select for updates. To facilitate the creation of filter objects, the
driver provides the ``Filters`` class that provides filter condition helper
methods. 

To view a list of ``Filters`` helpers, see the `Filters
API documentation <{+api+}/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/Filters.html>`__.
For more information about query filters, see the 
:manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
the MongoDB Server manual. 

.. _java-rs-update-operators:

Update Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To change a field in a document, MongoDB provides update operators.
To specify the modification to perform using the update operators,
create an update document. To facilitate the creation of update documents, the driver

> provides the ``Updates`` helper class.

Reviewer: S: clarify how this class facilitates the creation of update documents
```suggestion
provides the ``Updates`` helper class that contains filter condition helper
methods. 
```

.. important::

>    The ``id`` field is immutable, so you cannot change the value of the
>    ``id`` field in a document.

Reviewer: S: [nit] add an underscore before "id"
```suggestion
   The ``_id`` field is immutable, so you cannot change the value of the
   ``_id`` field in a document.
```

To learn more about update operators, see
:manual:`Update Operators </reference/operator/update/>` in the Server manual.

Update One Document
-------------------

To update a single document from a MongoDB collection, call the ``updateOne()``
method and pass your query filter as the first argument. Then, pass your
update operators as the second argument to the ``updateOne()`` method. After you call the
``updateOne()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass a subscriber
as an argument.

> The following example uses ``Updates.set()`` to update a document the ``name``

Reviewer: I: remove "a document"
```suggestion
The following example uses ``Updates.set()`` to update the ``name``
```

> value of a matching document from ``Bagels N Buns`` to ``2 Bagels 2 Buns``:

Reviewer: S: add quotes around the string values
```suggestion
value of a matching document from ``"Bagels N Buns"`` to ``"2 Bagels 2 Buns"``:
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber<UpdateResult> updateOneSubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.updateOne(eq("name", "Bagels N Buns"), set("name", "2
    Bagels 2 Buns")).subscribe(updateOneSubscriber);
    updateOneSubscriber.await();

Update Multiple Documents
-------------------------

To update multiple documents from a MongoDB collection, call the ``updateMany()``
method and pass your query filter. Then, pass your
update operators as the second argument to the ``updateMany()`` method. After you call the
``updateMany()`` method, chain the ``subscribe()`` method and pass a subscriber
as an argument.

> The following example updates all documents with a ``cuisine`` value of

Reviewer: S: to avoid "with", you could replace with "that have"
```suggestion
The following example updates all documents that have a ``cuisine`` value of
```

> ``Pizza`` to have a ``cuisine`` value of ``Pasta``:

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
``"Pizza"`` to have a ``cuisine`` value of ``"Pasta"``:
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    ObservableSubscriber<UpdateResult> updateManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.updateMany(eq("cuisine", "Pizza"), set("cuisine", "Pasta")).subscribe(updateManySubscriber);
    updateManySubscriber.await();

Customize the Update Operation
------------------------------

The ``UpdateOptions`` class contains methods that modify
the behavior of update methods. To use the ``UpdateOptions``
class, construct a new instance of the class, then call one or more of its methods
to modify the update operation. You can chain these method calls together.
To modify the behavior of the update operation, pass the class instance and

> chained method calls as the second argument to the

Reviewer: S: I think this would be the third argument (with the filter as the first, update operator as the second)
```suggestion
chained method calls as the third argument to the
```

``updateOne()`` or ``updateMany()`` method.

> You can use the following optional methods in the ``updateOptions`` class
> to modify an update method:

Reviewer: S: capitalize "updateOptions"; also, I think using "update operation" instead of "update method" helps differentiate the actual operation from the modifying method:
```suggestion
You can use the following optional methods in the ``UpdateOptions`` class
to modify an update operation:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``arrayFilters(List<? extends Bson> arrayFilters)``

>      - | A list of filters that specifies which array elements an update applies

Reviewer: S: this description seems to be describing the value you pass to the arrayFilters() method, rather than the method itself. I'd reword to start with a verb, like:
```suggestion
     - | Specifies which array elements an update applies
```

         to.

   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation(Boolean bypassDocumentValidation)``
     - | Specifies whether the update operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
         Server manual.
      
   * - ``collation(Collation collation)``
     - | Specifies the kind of language collation to use when sorting
         results. For more information, see :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#std-label-collation>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.  

   * - ``comment(Bson comment)``

>      - | A ``Bson`` comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command

Reviewer: S: similar comment as above - I think starting with a verb makes this more descriptive of the method itself
```suggestion
     - | Attaches a ``Bson`` comment to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
```

Reviewer: Applies to the other table descriptions (comment(String comment), let(Bson variables))

   * - ``hint(String hint)``
     - | Sets the index for the operation as a ``String`` value.
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``let(Bson variables)``
     - | A Map of parameter names and values. Values must be constant or closed
         expressions that don't reference document fields. For more information,
         see the :manual:`let statement
         </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax>` in the
         MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``upsert(Boolean upsert)``
     - | Specifies whether the update operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see the :manual:`upsert
         statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-upsert>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``updateMany()`` method to find all documents where the 
``borough`` field has the value ``"Manhattan"``. It then updates the ``borough``
value in these documents to ``"Manhattan (north)"``. Because the ``upsert`` option is

> set to ``True``, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 

Reviewer: S: lowercase "true" to match the code
```suggestion
set to ``true``, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 
```
